# Credit-Card-Transaction-Fraud-Detection-Project

# Background
Nowadays, credit card usage has significantly increased especially in the modern era, as almost all transactions can easily be processed online by entering credit card information. This has become a serious problem because a non negligible amount of credit card transactions are fraudulent and caused over $40 million lost per year worldwide. Fraud can be committed in different ways. Merchants and banks can use the address, transaction amount, location and device identification and etc. and apply a set of business rules, statistical rules and algorithms to detect as many frauds as possible while denying as few transactions as possible. 

# Executive Summary
This report provides an analysis of credit card’s transaction during the account usage process. The primary aim was to examine the best supervised fraud model to detect credit card transaction fraud and denying as few transactions as possible. This can be achieved by bringing together features of credit card transaction information, such as the amount, zip code, state, card number, merchant number, transaction type and merchant description. This information can go through the well-trained model that finds the patterns and rules of fraud transactions so that it can detect as many fraudulent transactions as possible while denying as few non-fraudulent transactions as possible and set a score cutoff that will divert records above the cutoff. 

Models of analytics include logistic regression, neural network, boosted trees(XGBoost) and random forest. Methods include data cleaning, variable creation, filter and wrapper. Calculations include univariate Kolmogorov-Smirnov score and model performance measure (e.g. FDR). More details about methods used can be found in the feature selection section. Specific details about models and calculations can be found in the model algorithms and results section.

The final best model we chose to analyze is RandomForestClassifier with 150 trees and 20 max depths. The dataset is splitted into three parts including training, testing and out-of-time. The final chosen model achieved 79.6% FDR at 3% on the out-of-time data. The final performance tables illustrate that the average results of 3% FDR rate and KS value for each dataset are in a relatively good range. We also illustrated the fraud savings calculation with recommended cutoff scores and two detailed plots for a card number and a merchant number. 
